.. |cbox| raw:: html

    <input type="checkbox">

Exercise 1: simple RPC and RDMA using Thallium
==============================================

.. note::

   The instructions in these exercises have a checkbox |cbox| that
   you can click on to help you keep track of your progress. These
   checkboxes are not connected to any action, they are just there for
   you to mark your progress.

The code for this exercise has been cloned in :code:`thallium-tutorial-exercises`
in your development environment.
In a terminal connected to your docker container, make sure you are in the
appropriate directory.

.. code-block:: console
   cd margo-tutorial/margo-tutorial-exercises

|cbox| The :code:`src` directory provides a :code:`client.cpp` client code,
a :code:`server.cpp` server code, a :code:`types.hpp` header defining
some types, and a :code:`phonebook.hpp` file containing an
implementation of a phonebook using an :code:`std::unordered_map`.

In this exercise we will make the server manage a phonebook and service
two kinds of RPCs: adding a new entry, and looking up a phone number
associated with a name.

|cbox| Let's start by setting up the spack environment and building the existing code:

.. code-block:: console

   spack env create thallium-tuto-env spack.yaml
   spack env activate thallium-tuto-env
   spack install
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   make

This will create the client and server programs.

|cbox| You can test your client and server programs by opening two terminals
(make sure you have run :code:`spack env activate thallium-tuto-env` in
them to activate your spack environment) and running the following
from the :code:`build` directory.

For the server:

.. code-block:: console

   src/server na+sm

This will start the server and print its address. :code:`na+sm`
(the shared memory transport) may be changed to tcp if you run this
code on multiple machines connected via an Ethernet network.

For the client:

.. code-block:: console

   src/client na+sm <server-address>

Copying :code:`<server-address>` from the standard output of the
server command. The server is setup to run indefinitely.
You may kill it with Ctrl-C.

|cbox| Looking at the API in :code:`phonebook.hpp`, edit :code:`server.cpp`
to instanciate a phonebook in :code:`main()` (see comment **(1)**).

|cbox| Our two RPCs, which we will call *"insert"* and *"lookup"*, will need
argument and return types. While you could pass an :code:`std::string` and
an :code:`uint64_t` directly to your RPC, in this tutorial we will define a
class encapsulating them to showcase custom serialization.
Edit the :code:`types.hpp` file to add an :code:`entry`
class, which will be used as input argument for the *insert* RPC,
ontaining a :code:`std::string name` field and a :code:`uint64_t number` field
(see comment **(2)** in the file). Look at the :code:`vector3d` class
as an example and define a :code:`serialize` template function in
your own classes following this model.

.. note::

   You may need to include :code:`thallium/serialization/stl/string.hpp`
   so that Thallium knows how to serialize strings.

To summarize:

* The *insert* RPC will take an :code:`entry` as input and respond with
  an :code:`uint32_t` error code (0 representing a successful operation).
* The *lookup* RPC will take an :code:`std::string` as input and respond
  with a :code:`uint64_t` (we will assume as a phone number of 0 represents
  a failed lookup).

|cbox| Edit :code:`server.cpp` to add the definitions and declarations of the
lambda functions for our two RPCs. Feel free to copy/paste and modify
the existing :code:`sum` RPC (comments **(3)** and **(4)**).

.. important::
   Thallium relies on templates and type deduction to know what to serialize
   and how when sending RPC arguments and responses. If you
   write :code:`req.respond(0)`, C++ will infer that you want to send an :code:`int`.
   If your client expects an :code:`uint64_t` as a response, this will cause
   serialization issues. It is always recommanded to explicitely define the
   variable that will be returned, e.g. :code:`uint64_t ret = 0; req.respond(ret)`.

|cbox| Edit :code:`client.cpp` and use the existing code as an example to
register the two RPCs here as well (comment **(5)**). *Make sure that the client
uses the same types as the server for RPC inputs and output. Failing to do so
will cause serialization issues.*

|cbox| Try out your code by calling these insert and lookup functions a
few times in the client.

Bonus: using RDMA to transfer larger amounts of data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Do this bonus part only if you have time, or as an exercise later.
In this part, we will add a :code:`lookup_multi` RPC that uses RDMA
to send multiple names at once and return the array of associated
phone numbers (in practice this would be too little data to call
for the use of RDMA, but we will just pretent).
For this, you may use the example on :ref:`ThalliumBulk`.

We assume that the names to lookup are in a :code:`std::vector<std::string>`
on the client.

|cbox| You will need to create two bulk handles (:code:`tl::bulk`) on the client
and two on the server. On the client, the first will expose the names as
read-only (remember that :code:`engine::expose` can take a vector of
non-contiguous segments, but you will need to use :code:`name.size()+1` as the
size of each segment to keep the null terminator of each name), and the second
will expose the output array as write only. The :code:`engine::expose` function
can be used to create these bulk handles. It takes an :code:`std::vector<std::pair<void*, size_t>>`
of segments (represented by their address and size).
The address of the memory of an :code:`std::string` str can be obtained
using :code:`str.data()` (which should then be cast to :code:`void*`).

|cbox| You will need to transfer the two bulk handles in the RPC arguments,
and since names can have a varying size, you will have to also transfer
the total size of the bulk handle wrapping them, so that the server
knows how much memory to allocate for its local buffer.

|cbox| On the server side, you will need to allocate two buffers; one to
receive the names (you can use an :code:`std::vector<char>` which you
resize to the size required to receive all the names; they will end up
in this contiguous buffer, separated by null characters) via a *pull* operation,
the other to send the phone numbers via a *push* (you can use an
:code:`std::vector<uint64_t>` for this one).

|cbox| You will need to create two bulk instances to expose these buffers.

|cbox| After having transferred the names (:code:`remote_names_bulk >> local_names_bulk`),
they will be in the server's contiguous buffers. You can rely on the null-terminators
to know where one name ends and the next starts, lookup each name in the phonebook,
fill the :code:`std::vector<uint64_t>` buffer allocated for the phone numbers,
then transfer the content of this local buffer to the client
(:code:`remote_numbers_bulk << local_numbers_bulk`).
