Configuring Bedrock using Jx9, TOML, and simplified JSON
========================================================

JSON configurations for Bedrock can very quickly become complicated
to write by hand, especially when trying to list many execution
streams for use in a many-core node, associated with as many pools
and providers. The alternative configuration methods provided
hereafter aim to simplified the writing of Bedrock configurations.

Simplified JSON
---------------

In a JSON Bedrock configurations, any key/value pair in the form :code:`"x.y" : value`
will be automatically converted into the object :code:`{ "x" : { "y" : value }}`.
This way of writing the JSON file leads the more flat JSON files that are easier
to read.

Jx9
---

By using the :code:`--jx9` argument of the :code:`bedrock` program,
one can use a Jx9 program instead of a JSON file to generate the
JSON configuration.

The code bellow is an example of such a Jx9-based configuration.
It first initializes a base configuration, then uses a loop to
add as many pools as requested in the :code:`argobots` section.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../code/bedrock/05_jx9/example.jx9
   :language: json

Bedrock can use this file as follows.

.. code-block:: console

   bedrock ofi+tcp --jx9 -c example.jx9 --jx9-context num_extra_pools=4

The :code:`--jx9-context` argument allows setting variables before
the Jx9 script is executed, in the form of coma-separated assignments
(e.g. :code:`x=1,y=2.5,z="abc"` ).

TOML
----

Bedrock understands TOML configuration files using the :code:`--toml` argument
of the :code:`bedrock` program. The code bellow is an example of such a
TOML configuration.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../code/bedrock/05_jx9/example.toml
   :language: toml

Since TOML is simply an alternative language to express the same kind of
tree of data as JSON, please refer to `the TOML documentation <https://toml.io/>`_
for its syntax, and refer to the Bedrock JSON format for the list of expected
fields of a configuration.
